Well, lieutenant, and our soundings?"

"I think, sir, that the operation is nearing its completion,"
replied Lieutenant Bronsfield.  "But who would have thought of
finding such a depth so near in shore, and only 200 miles from
the American coast?"

"Certainly, Bronsfield, there is a great depression," said
Captain Blomsberry.  "In this spot there is a submarine valley
worn by Humboldt's current, which skirts the coast of America as
far as the Straits of Magellan."

"These great depths," continued the lieutenant, "are not
favorable for laying telegraphic cables.  A level bottom, like
that supporting the American cable between Valentia and
Newfoundland, is much better."

"I agree with you, Bronsfield.  With your permission,
lieutenant, where are we now?"

"Sir, at this moment we have 3,508 fathoms of line out, and the
ball which draws the sounding lead has not yet touched the
bottom; for if so, it would have come up of itself."

"Brook's apparatus is very ingenious," said Captain Blomsberry;
"it gives us very exact soundings."

"Touch!" cried at this moment one of the men at the forewheel,
who was superintending the operation.

The captain and the lieutenant mounted the quarterdeck.

"What depth have we?" asked the captain.

"Three thousand six hundred and twenty-seven fathoms," replied
the lieutenant, entering it in his notebook.

"Well, Bronsfield," said the captain, "I will take down
the result.  Now haul in the sounding line.  It will be the
work of some hours.  In that time the engineer can light the
furnaces, and we shall be ready to start as soon as you
have finished.  It is ten o'clock, and with your permission,
lieutenant, I will turn in."

"Do so, sir; do so!" replied the lieutenant obligingly.

The captain of the Susquehanna, as brave a man as need be, and
the humble servant of his officers, returned to his cabin, took
a brandy-grog, which earned for the steward no end of praise,
and turned in, not without having complimented his servant upon
his making beds, and slept a peaceful sleep.

It was then ten at night.  The eleventh day of the month of
December was drawing to a close in a magnificent night.

The Susquehanna, a corvette of 500 horse-power, of the United
States navy, was occupied in taking soundings in the Pacific
Ocean about 200 miles off the American coast, following that
long peninsula which stretches down the coast of Mexico.

The wind had dropped by degrees.  There was no disturbance in
the air.  The pennant hung motionless from the maintop-gallant-
mast truck.

Captain Jonathan Blomsberry (cousin-german of Colonel
Blomsberry, one of the most ardent supporters of the Gun Club,
who had married an aunt of the captain and daughter of an
honorable Kentucky merchant)-- Captain Blomsberry could not have
wished for finer weather in which to bring to a close his
delicate operations of sounding.  His corvette had not even felt
the great tempest, which by sweeping away the groups of clouds
on the Rocky Mountains, had allowed them to observe the course
of the famous projectile.

Everything went well, and with all the fervor of a Presbyterian,
he did not forget to thank heaven for it.  The series of
soundings taken by the Susquehanna, had for its aim the finding
of a favorable spot for the laying of a submarine cable to
connect the Hawaiian Islands with the coast of America.

It was a great undertaking, due to the instigation of a
powerful company.  Its managing director, the intelligent Cyrus
Field, purposed even covering all the islands of Oceanica with
a vast electrical network, an immense enterprise, and one worthy
of American genius.

To the corvette Susquehanna had been confided the first
operations of sounding.  It was on the night of the 11th-12th of
December, she was in exactly 27@ 7' north latitude, and 41@ 37'
west longitude, on the meridian of Washington.

The moon, then in her last quarter, was beginning to rise above
the horizon.

After the departure of Captain Blomsberry, the lieutenant and
some officers were standing together on the poop.  On the
appearance of the moon, their thoughts turned to that orb which
the eyes of a whole hemisphere were contemplating.  The best
naval glasses could not have discovered the projectile wandering
around its hemisphere, and yet all were pointed toward that
brilliant disc which millions of eyes were looking at at the
same moment.

"They have been gone ten days," said Lieutenant Bronsfield
at last.  "What has become of them?"

"They have arrived, lieutenant," exclaimed a young midshipman,
"and they are doing what all travelers do when they arrive in a
new country, taking a walk!"

"Oh!  I am sure of that, if you tell me so, my young friend,"
said Lieutenant Bronsfield, smiling.

"But," continued another officer, "their arrival cannot
be doubted.  The projectile was to reach the moon when full
on the 5th at midnight.  We are now at the 11th of December, which
makes six days.  And in six times twenty-four hours, without
darkness, one would have time to settle comfortably.  I fancy I
see my brave countrymen encamped at the bottom of some valley,
on the borders of a Selenite stream, near a projectile half-buried
by its fall amid volcanic rubbish, Captain Nicholl beginning his
leveling operations, President Barbicane writing out his notes,
and Michel Ardan embalming the lunar solitudes with the perfume
of his----"

"Yes! it must be so, it is so!" exclaimed the young midshipman,
worked up to a pitch of enthusiasm by this ideal description of
his superior officer.

"I should like to believe it," replied the lieutenant, who was
quite unmoved.  "Unfortunately direct news from the lunar world
is still wanting."

"Beg pardon, lieutenant," said the midshipman, "but cannot
President Barbicane write?"

A burst of laughter greeted this answer.

"No letters!" continued the young man quickly.  "The postal
administration has something to see to there."

"Might it not be the telegraphic service that is at fault?"
asked one of the officers ironically.

"Not necessarily," replied the midshipman, not at all confused.
"But it is very easy to set up a graphic communication with
the earth."

"And how?"

"By means of the telescope at Long's Peak.  You know it brings
the moon to within four miles of the Rocky Mountains, and that
it shows objects on its surface of only nine feet in diameter.
Very well; let our industrious friends construct a giant
alphabet; let them write words three fathoms long, and sentences
three miles long, and then they can send us news of themselves."

The young midshipman, who had a certain amount of imagination,
was loudly applauded; Lieutenant Bronsfield allowing that the
idea was possible, but observing that if by these means they
could receive news from the lunar world they could not send any
from the terrestrial, unless the Selenites had instruments fit
for taking distant observations at their disposal.

"Evidently," said one of the officers; "but what has become of
the travelers? what they have done, what they have seen, that
above all must interest us.  Besides, if the experiment has
succeeded (which I do not doubt), they will try it again.
The Columbiad is still sunk in the soil of Florida.  It is now
only a question of powder and shot; and every time the moon is
at her zenith a cargo of visitors may be sent to her."

"It is clear," replied Lieutenant Bronsfield, "that J. T. Maston
will one day join his friends."

"If he will have me," cried the midshipman, "I am ready!"

"Oh! volunteers will not be wanting," answered Bronsfield; "and
if it were allowed, half of the earth's inhabitants would
emigrate to the moon!"

This conversation between the officers of the Susquehanna was
kept up until nearly one in the morning.  We cannot say what
blundering systems were broached, what inconsistent theories
advanced by these bold spirits.  Since Barbicane's attempt,
nothing seemed impossible to the Americans.  They had already
designed an expedition, not only of savants, but of a whole
colony toward the Selenite borders, and a complete army,
consisting of infantry, artillery, and cavalry, to conquer the
lunar world.

At one in the morning, the hauling in of the sounding-line was
not yet completed; 1,670 fathoms were still out, which would
entail some hours' work.  According to the commander's orders,
the fires had been lighted, and steam was being got up.
The Susquehanna could have started that very instant.

At that moment (it was seventeen minutes past one in the
morning) Lieutenant Bronsfield was preparing to leave the watch
and return to his cabin, when his attention was attracted by a
distant hissing noise.  His comrades and himself first thought
that this hissing was caused by the letting off of steam; but
lifting their heads, they found that the noise was produced in
the highest regions of the air.  They had not time to question
each other before the hissing became frightfully intense, and
suddenly there appeared to their dazzled eyes an enormous
meteor, ignited by the rapidity of its course and its friction
through the atmospheric strata.

This fiery mass grew larger to their eyes, and fell, with
the noise of thunder, upon the bowsprit, which it smashed close
to the stem, and buried itself in the waves with a deafening roar!

A few feet nearer, and the Susquehanna would have foundered with
all on board!

At this instant Captain Blomsberry appeared, half-dressed, and
rushing on to the forecastle-deck, whither all the officers had
hurried, exclaimed, "With your permission, gentlemen, what
has happened?"

And the midshipman, making himself as it were the echo of the
body, cried, "Commander, it is `they' come back again!"





CHAPTER XXI


J. T. MASTON RECALLED


"It is `they' come back again!" the young midshipman had said,
and every one had understood him.  No one doubted but that the
meteor was the projectile of the Gun Club.  As to the travelers
which it enclosed, opinions were divided regarding their fate.

"They are dead!" said one.

"They are alive!" said another; "the crater is deep, and the
shock was deadened."

"But they must have wanted air," continued a third speaker;
"they must have died of suffocation."

"Burned!" replied a fourth; "the projectile was nothing but an
incandescent mass as it crossed the atmosphere."

"What does it matter!" they exclaimed unanimously; "living or
dead, we must pull them out!"

But Captain Blomsberry had assembled his officers, and "with
their permission," was holding a council.  They must decide upon
something to be done immediately.  The more hasty ones were for
fishing up the projectile.  A difficult operation, though not an
impossible one.  But the corvette had no proper machinery, which
must be both fixed and powerful; so it was resolved that they
should put in at the nearest port, and give information to the
Gun Club of the projectile's fall.

This determination was unanimous.  The choice of the port had
to be discussed.  The neighboring coast had no anchorage on
27@ latitude.  Higher up, above the peninsula of Monterey, stands
the important town from which it takes its name; but, seated on
the borders of a perfect desert, it was not connected with the
interior by a network of telegraphic wires, and electricity
alone could spread these important news fast enough.

Some degrees above opened the bay of San Francisco.  Through the
capital of the gold country communication would be easy with the
heart of the Union.  And in less than two days the Susquehanna,
by putting on high pressure, could arrive in that port.  She must
therefore start at once.

The fires were made up; they could set off immediately.
Two thousand fathoms of line were still out, which Captain
Blomsberry, not wishing to lose precious time in hauling in,
resolved to cut.

"we will fasten the end to a buoy," said he, "and that buoy will
show us the exact spot where the projectile fell."

"Besides," replied Lieutenant Bronsfield, "we have our situation
exact-- 27@ 7' north latitude and 41@ 37' west longitude."

"Well, Mr. Bronsfield," replied the captain, "now, with your
permission, we will have the line cut."

A strong buoy, strengthened by a couple of spars, was thrown
into the ocean.  The end of the rope was carefully lashed to it;
and, left solely to the rise and fall of the billows, the buoy
would not sensibly deviate from the spot.

At this moment the engineer sent to inform the captain that
steam was up and they could start, for which agreeable
communication the captain thanked him.  The course was then
given north-northeast, and the corvette, wearing, steered at
full steam direct for San Francisco.  It was three in the morning.

Four hundred and fifty miles to cross; it was nothing for a good
vessel like the Susquehanna.  In thirty-six hours she had covered
that distance; and on the 14th of December, at twenty-seven
minutes past one at night, she entered the bay of San Francisco.

At the sight of a ship of the national navy arriving at full speed,
with her bowsprit broken, public curiosity was greatly roused.
A dense crowd soon assembled on the quay, waiting for them
to disembark.

After casting anchor, Captain Blomsberry and Lieutenant
Bronsfield entered an eight-pared cutter, which soon brought
them to land.

They jumped on to the quay.

"The telegraph?" they asked, without answering one of the
thousand questions addressed to them.

The officer of the port conducted them to the telegraph office
through a concourse of spectators.  Blomsberry and Bronsfield
entered, while the crowd crushed each other at the door.

Some minutes later a fourfold telegram was sent out--the first
to the Naval Secretary at Washington; the second to the
vice-president of the Gun Club, Baltimore; the third to the Hon.
J. T. Maston, Long's Peak, Rocky Mountains; and the fourth to
the sub-director of the Cambridge Observatory, Massachusetts.

It was worded as follows:


In 20@ 7' north latitude, and 41@ 37' west longitude, on the
12th of December, at seventeen minutes past one in the morning,
the projectile of the Columbiad fell into the Pacific.
Send instructions.-- BLOMSBERRY, Commander Susquehanna.


Five minutes afterward the whole town of San Francisco learned
the news.  Before six in the evening the different States of the
Union had heard the great catastrophe; and after midnight, by
the cable, the whole of Europe knew the result of the great
American experiment.  We will not attempt to picture the effect
produced on the entire world by that unexpected denouement.

On receipt of the telegram the Naval Secretary telegraphed to
the Susquehanna to wait in the bay of San Francisco without
extinguishing her fires.  Day and night she must be ready
to put to sea.

The Cambridge observatory called a special meeting; and, with
that composure which distinguishes learned bodies in general,
peacefully discussed the scientific bearings of the question.
At the Gun Club there was an explosion.  All the gunners
were assembled.  Vice-President the Hon. Wilcome was in the
act of reading the premature dispatch, in which J. T. Maston
and Belfast announced that the projectile had just been seen in
the gigantic reflector of Long's Peak, and also that it was held
by lunar attraction, and was playing the part of under satellite
to the lunar world.

We know the truth on that point.

But on the arrival of Blomsberry's dispatch, so decidely
contradicting J. T. Maston's telegram, two parties were formed
in the bosom of the Gun Club.  On one side were those who
admitted the fall of the projectile, and consequently the return
of the travelers; on the other, those who believed in the
observations of Long's Peak, concluded that the commander of the
Susquehanna had made a mistake.  To the latter the pretended
projectile was nothing but a meteor! nothing but a meteor, a
shooting globe, which in its fall had smashed the bows of
the corvette.  It was difficult to answer this argument, for
the speed with which it was animated must have made observation
very difficult.  The commander of the Susquehanna and her
officers might have made a mistake in all good faith; one argument
however, was in their favor, namely, that if the projectile had
fallen on the earth, its place of meeting with the terrestrial
globe could only take place on this 27@ north latitude, and
(taking into consideration the time that had elapsed, and the
rotary motion of the earth) between the 41@ and the 42@ of
west longitude.  In any case, it was decided in the Gun Club
that Blomsberry brothers, Bilsby, and Major Elphinstone should
go straight to San Francisco, and consult as to the means of
raising the projectile from the depths of the ocean.

These devoted men set off at once; and the railroad, which will
soon cross the whole of Central America, took them as far as St.
Louis, where the swift mail-coaches awaited them.  Almost at the
same moment in which the Secretary of Marine, the vice-president
of the Gun Club, and the sub-director of the Observatory received
the dispatch from San Francisco, the Honorable J. T. Maston was
undergoing the greatest excitement he had ever experienced in his
life, an excitement which even the bursting of his pet gun, which
had more than once nearly cost him his life, had not caused him.
We may remember that the secretary of the Gun Club had started
soon after the projectile (and almost as quickly) for the station
on Long's Peak, in the Rocky Mountains, J. Belfast, director of the
Cambridge Observatory, accompanying him.  Arrived there, the two
friends had installed themselves at once, never quitting the
summit of their enormous telescope.  We know that this gigantic
instrument had been set up according to the reflecting system,
called by the English "front view."  This arrangement subjected
all objects to but one reflection, making the view consequently
much clearer; the result was that, when they were taking
observation, J. T. Maston and Belfast were placed in the _upper_
part of the instrument and not in the lower, which they reached
by a circular staircase, a masterpiece of lightness, while below
them opened a metal well terminated by the metallic mirror,
which measured two hundred and eighty feet in depth.

It was on a narrow platform placed above the telescope that the
two savants passed their existence, execrating the day which hid
the moon from their eyes, and the clouds which obstinately
veiled her during the night.

What, then, was their delight when, after some days of waiting,
on the night of the 5th of December, they saw the vehicle which
was bearing their friends into space!  To this delight succeeded
a great deception, when, trusting to a cursory observation, they
launched their first telegram to the world, erroneously
affirming that the projectile had become a satellite of the
moon, gravitating in an immutable orbit.

From that moment it had never shown itself to their eyes-- a
disappearance all the more easily explained, as it was then
passing behind the moon's invisible disc; but when it was time
for it to reappear on the visible disc, one may imagine the
impatience of the fuming J. T. Maston and his not less
impatient companion.  Each minute of the night they thought
they saw the projectile once more, and they did not see it.
Hence constant discussions and violent disputes between them,
Belfast affirming that the projectile could not be seen, J. T.
Maston maintaining that "it had put his eyes out."

"It is the projectile!" repeated J. T. Maston.

"No," answered Belfast; "it is an avalanche detached from a
lunar mountain."

"Well, we shall see it to-morrow."

"No, we shall not see it any more.  It is carried into space."

"Yes!"

"No!"

And at these moments, when contradictions rained like hail, the
well-known irritability of the secretary of the Gun Club
constituted a permanent danger for the Honorable Belfast.
The existence of these two together would soon have become
impossible; but an unforseen event cut short their
everlasting discussions.

During the night, from the 14th to the 15th of December, the two
irreconcilable friends were busy observing the lunar disc, J. T.
Maston abusing the learned Belfast as usual, who was by his
side; the secretary of the Gun Club maintaining for the
thousandth time that he had just seen the projectile, and adding
that he could see Michel Ardan's face looking through one of the
scuttles, at the same time enforcing his argument by a series of
gestures which his formidable hook rendered very unpleasant.

At this moment Belfast's servant appeared on the platform (it
was ten at night) and gave him a dispatch.  It was the commander
of the Susquehanna's telegram.

Belfast tore the envelope and read, and uttered a cry.

"What!" said J. T. Maston.

"The projectile!"

"Well!"

"Has fallen to the earth!"

Another cry, this time a perfect howl, answered him.  He turned
toward J. T. Maston.  The unfortunate man, imprudently leaning
over the metal tube, had disappeared in the immense telescope.
A fall of two hundred and eighty feet!  Belfast, dismayed,
rushed to the orifice of the reflector.

He breathed.  J. T. Maston, caught by his metal hook, was
holding on by one of the rings which bound the telescope
together, uttering fearful cries.

Belfast called.  Help was brought, tackle was let down, and they
hoisted up, not without some trouble, the imprudent secretary of
the Gun Club.

He reappeared at the upper orifice without hurt.

"Ah!" said he, "if I had broken the mirror?"

"You would have paid for it," replied Belfast severely.

"And that cursed projectile has fallen?" asked J. T. Maston.

"Into the Pacific!"

"Let us go!"

A quarter of an hour after the two savants were descending the
declivity of the Rocky Mountains; and two days after, at the
same time as their friends of the Gun Club, they arrived at San
Francisco, having killed five horses on the road.

Elphinstone, the brothers Blomsberry, and Bilsby rushed toward
them on their arrival.

"What shall we do?" they exclaimed.

"Fish up the projectile," replied J. T. Maston, "and the sooner
the better."